cloud: support data service (#12711)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md

---
title: API Key in Data Service
summary: Learn how to create, edit, and delete an API key for a Data App.
---

# API Key in Data Service

The TiDB Cloud Data API uses [HTTP Digest Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digest_access_authentication). It protects your private key from being sent over the network. For more details about HTTP Digest Authentication, refer to the [IETF RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7616).

## API key overview

> - The API key contains a public key and a private key, which act as the username and password required in the HTTP Digest Authentication. The private key only displays upon the key creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An API key contains a public key and a private key, which act as the username and password required in the HTTP Digest Authentication. The private key is only displayed upon the key creation.
```

Reviewer: `Display` is a transitive verb; therefore, it requires an object.
https://developers.google.cn/style/word-list#letter-d

> - The API key belongs to a Data App and is used to access the data in the TiDB Cloud clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each API key belongs to one Data App only and is used to access the data in the TiDB Cloud clusters.
```

- You must provide the correct API key in every request. Otherwise, the TiDB Cloud responds with a `401` error.

## API key management

The following sections describe how to create, edit, and delete an API key for a Data App.

### Create an API key

To create an API key for a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page of your project.

> 2. Click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.
```

> 3. In the **API Key** section, click **Create API Key**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **API Key** area, click **Create API Key**.
```

4. In the **Create API Key** dialog box, enter a description for your API key, and then click **Next**. The private key and public key are displayed.

>     Make sure that you have copied and saved the private key in a secure location. The private key only displays upon creation. After leaving this page, you will not be able to get the full private key again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Make sure that you have copied and saved the private key in a secure location. After leaving this page, you will not be able to get the full private key again.
```

5. Click **Done**.

### Edit an API key

> To edit an API key for a Data App, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit the description of an API key, perform the following steps:
```

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page of your project.

> 2. Click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.
```

> 3. In the **API Key** section, click **Edit** in the API key row that you want to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **API Key** area, click **Edit** in the API key row that you want to change.
```

> 4. You can update the description of the API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Update the description of the API key.
```

5. Click **Update**.

### Delete an API key

> 

Reviewer: Do we add a note here to tell users to ensure that the target app no longer uses this API key?

Author: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/12711/commits/3705a41eab19e875732b890537bf3a90557672d1#diff-08c9ef46df79a9dc16a0c5bc178efd0f230ea3b2851e6b262f0eed91d0a02ae2R45-R47

```markdown
> **Note:**
>
> Before you delete an API key, make sure that the API key is not used by any Data App.
```

To delete an API key for a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page of your project.

> 2. Click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to go to its details page.
```

> 3. In the **API Key** section, click **Delete** in the API key row that you want to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **API Key** area, click **Delete** in the API key row that you want to delete.
```

> 4. You can update the description of the API key.
> 5. Click **Delete**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Delete**.
```

---

> title: API Key in Data Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: API Keys in Data Service
```

summary: Learn how to create, edit, and delete an API key for a Data App.
---

> # API Key in Data Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# API Keys in Data Service
```

> The TiDB Cloud Data API uses [HTTP Digest Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digest_access_authentication). It protects your private key from being sent over the network. For more details about HTTP Digest Authentication, refer to the [IETF RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7616).

Reviewer 3: 这个link https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digest_access_authentication 无效

> **Note:**
>
> The Data API key in Data Service is different from the key used in the [TiDB Cloud API](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#section/Authentication). The Data API key is used to access data in the TiDB Cloud clusters, whereas the TiDB Cloud API key is used to manage resources such as projects, clusters, backups, restores, and imports.

## API key overview

- An API key contains a public key and a private key, which act as the username and password required in the HTTP Digest Authentication. The private key is only displayed upon the key creation.
- Each API key belongs to one Data App only and is used to access the data in the TiDB Cloud clusters.

> - You must provide the correct API key in every request. Otherwise, the TiDB Cloud responds with a `401` error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You must provide the correct API key in every request. Otherwise, TiDB Cloud responds with a `401` error.
```

4. In the **Create API Key** dialog box, enter a description for your API key, and then click **Next**. The private key and public key are displayed.

    Make sure that you have copied and saved the private key in a secure location. After leaving this page, you will not be able to get the full private key again.

5. Click **Done**.

### Edit an API key

To edit the description of an API key, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page of your project.
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to view its details.
3. In the **API Key** area, locate the **Action** column, and then click **...** > **Edit** in the API key row that you want to change.
4. Update the description of the API key.
5. Click **Update**.

### Delete an API key

> **Note:**
>
> Before you delete an API key, make sure that the API key is not used by any Data App.

To delete an API key for a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page of your project.
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to view its details.

> 3. In the **API Key** area, click **...** > **Delete** in the API key row that you want to delete.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In the **API Key** area, locate the **Action** column, and then click **...** > **Delete** in the API key row that you want to delete.
```
